---
title: This Weekend in BarelyHuman Dev Labs - March 27th and 28th
published: true
date: 29/03/2021
---

Quite an eventful week I tell you, did enough to satisfy my hunger for building
tools.

Let's get to what the week started with and what we ended at.

## mytag[^1]

[^1]: [MyTag Source](https://github.com/cryptoboid/mytag)

The same app I mentioned last week had a few more additions to the app, again
I'm just helping the developer out, haven't made enough contribution yet to make
a difference. The app is a very simple implementation of google photo's tagging
feature to be able to detect objects. This is being done to avoid sending and
storing data to the google servers and just using your own device's storage to
handle the searching and indexing for normal users.

Still getting developed so let's wait for it.

## reaper.im[^2]

[^2]: [reaper.im](https://reaper.is) , [source](https://github.com/barelyhuman/reaper.im)

Yeah, this blog, if it isn't obvious, the blog was redesigned to handle dark
mode and to generate html files instead of using a live router to handle the
routes, each markdown file is now generated as a simple html file, yeah it's a
pretty old concept and basically how most SSG toolsets work and then have their
own router to handle some routes and act as a middleware to handle the browser
requests.

Now, the reason for doing this was

1. I needed to build my own static generator to experiment some ideas with
2. It's fun

Now this has definitely ruined the older links everywhere and I might have to
sit and fix it everywhere but instead set something up to redirect all old links
to [old.reaper.im](https://old.reaper.im) instead

## musync[^3]

[^3]: [musync source](https://github.com/barelyhuman/musync)

Another small tool that I built last week and started as a web app but heroku
and other existing free solutions wouldn't work well since the scheduling would
become very limited to just the architechture I use it with so I ended up moving
it to be a simple binary that does it for me. The app is just a simple library
syncer as I mentioned in last week's update post and takes in your client creds
from spotify and moves all the tracks from the user library to the given target
playlist.

Not something everyone needs but I like to have a shareable playlist that has
all the tracks I have added to my library.

That's basically all that I worked on the last weekend and planned stuff for
tillwhen to have a minimum charge instead of depending on donations, since I
plan on putting all the other mini projects on the side and focus on just
working on tillwhen as a dedicated business. Just a plan, so let's see where
that goes.

That's it for now, Adios
