---
title: Shutting down TillWhen
published: true
date: 01/07/2023
---

_3 Years..._

TillWhen came into existence as an alternative to Toggl. It didn't try to
compete with Toggl but just had to have the bare minimum features to be called a
Time Tracker/Logger.

It was a project where I experimented with designs I thought would look good,
typography that would look nice, and in some cases also built internal libraries
and tools.

Overall, the project had a good run. It had quite a few active users when it
started, and that number probably dropped over the years. But I got to
experience development as an Indie dev, and I can't lie, it felt great.

**Why shut it down?**

It's mostly because of my inability to focus on the project, and the future
reaper might not be able to support the project both mentally and financially.

You see, I plan to move into freelancing instead of a day job, and that's going
to lead to a big change in my lifestyle since I can't expect the same income as
soon as I start doing it.

TillWhen is cheap to host. It costs $140 per year, taking into account the
Transactional Email Service and hosting costs. I've avoided all other costs by
using my personal domain names, avoiding any file upload-based features, and
overall keeping the app very small to be able to run on a simple $10 Digital
Ocean instance. There were no ads because I don't like them, so I'm not
interested in users seeing them either.

Overall, the decision is based on where I'll be in the next few months. I would
prefer that users transition to other platforms slowly instead of me abruptly
shutting it down one day (I shut down Taco in a day, and that wasn't nice).

The other issue is that TillWhen can't go through the dogfooding process, so
issues are slow to get resolved and often overlooked since I don't even know
they exist. I'm not a fan of time tracking, so I never use it, and the feedback
loop is the only way to improve it. As mentioned, that's very slow for a product
that doesn't really provide much value other than being simpler.

The last issue is my failure to maintain it properly. I can also blame it on the
tech since upgrading that tech is another hassle right now, but it still is my
fault for not writing it well enough to be able to refactor it properly. The
codebase is a mess with all the experiments, my dumbness, and things I didn't
understand about the stack when I started working with it. Now that I do
understand them, the entire application would be better off rewritten than
spending time refactoring it. I've tried to do it a couple of times, but then
every other project that I use and provides me value ends up taking precedence.
You can say I'm being selfish and not thinking about users, and you may be
right, but they also deserve to use a product that's at least going to be
maintained.

**Does this affect other services like [Goblin](https://goblin.run) and
[CRI](https://cri.barelyhuman.dev)?**

Not exactly. Goblin is something I use on a weekly basis for setting up my own
tooling and other Go binaries that I often use. It's something I can maintain,
so the chances of it shutting down anytime soon are quite low! And CRI is a
self-maintained app and doesn't need me to mess with it unless the
auto-population starts breaking, which is simple to fix. It's also small enough
to be able to run on Vercel for free, so there's not that much work for me in
it. So no, this doesn't affect both those services.

**Why not make it a paid app?**

I'm not sure how to make good productivity tools. I'm not a super organized or
productive person, and these tools just cause friction in my workflow. So it's
hard for me to keep building on a tool that I have no interest in and that will
further impact the users. It's not just about the money, or I would've done
that.

Hopefully, some of it makes sense. But well, it was a nice learning experience,
helped me grow as a developer, and specifically as an indie developer.
